Chapter 32: His Angels Will Guard You
     “For he shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways. They shall bear thee up in their hands, lest thou dash thy foot against a stone.” Ps. 91:11, 12 
     “The guardianship of the heavenly host is granted to all who will work in God’s ways and follow His plans.” 1SM 97
     “The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him, and delivereth them.” Ps. 34:7
     “Could our eyes be opened, we should see forms of evil angels around us, trying to invent some new way to annoy and destroy us. And we should also see angels of God guarding us from their power; for God’s watchful eye is over Israel for good, and He will protect and save His people, if they put their trust in Him.” EW 60
     “Angels are ever present where they are most needed, with those who have the hardest battle with self to fight, and whose surroundings are the most discouraging.” DA 440
     “He has not left us to grapple with the power of the enemy in our finite strength. Heavenly angels fight our battles for us; and cooperating with them, we may be victorious over the powers of evil.” GAG 10
     “If we realize our helplessness and our need of divine power, we shall not trust to ourselves. We know not what results a day, an hour, or a moment may determine, and never should we begin the day without committing our ways to our heavenly Father. His angels are appointed to watch over us, and if we put ourselves under their guardianship, then in every time of danger they will be at our right hand. When unconsciously we are in danger of exerting a wrong influence, the angels will be by our side, prompting us to a better course, choosing our words for us, and influencing our actions.” COL 341, 342
     “Are they not all ministering spirits, sent forth to minister for them who shall be heirs of salvation?” Heb. 1:14
     “The angels of glory find their joy in giving, - giving love and tireless watchcare to souls that are fallen and unholy. Heavenly beings woo the hearts of men; they bring to this dark world light from the courts above; by gentle and patient ministry they move upon the human spirit, to bring the lost into a fellowship with Christ which is even closer than they themselves can know.” DA 21
     “Heavenly angels are acquainted with our words and actions, and even with the thoughts and intents of the heart.” 1T 544
     “But it is not the work of good angels to control the minds of men against their will. If they yield to the enemy, and make no effort to resist him, then the angels of God can do but little more than hold in check the host of Satan, that they shall not destroy, until further light be given to those in peril, to move them to arouse and look to heaven for help. Jesus will not com-mission holy angels to extricate those who make no effort to help them-selves.” 1T 345
     “The work of these heavenly beings is to prepare the inhabitants of this world to become children of God, pure, holy, undefiled. But men, though professing to be followers of Christ, do not place themselves in a position where they can understand this ministry, and thus the work of the heavenly messengers is made hard.” 7BC 923
     “I have been shown angels of God all ready to impart grace and power to those who feel their need of divine strength. But these heavenly messengers will not bestow blessings unless solicited. They have waited for the cry from souls hungering and thirsting for the blessing of God; often they have waited in vain. There were, indeed, casual prayers, but not the earnest supplication from humble, contrite hearts.” OHC 129
     “If our eyes could be opened to discern the fallen angels at work with those who feel at ease and consider themselves safe, we would not feel so secure. Evil angels are upon our track every moment.” 1T 302
     “The adversary of souls is not permitted to read the thoughts of men; but he is a keen observer, and he marks the words; he takes account of actions, and skillfully adapts his temptations to meet the cases of those who place themselves in his power.” 1SM 122 
     “A silent witness guards every soul that lives, seeking to win and draw him to Christ. The angels never leave the tempted one a prey to the enemy who would destroy the souls of men if permitted to do so. As long as there is hope, until they resist the Holy Spirit to their eternal ruin, men are guarded by heavenly intelligences.” OHC 23

