Chapter 22: Walk by the Spirit - Do Not Gratify the Desires of the Flesh
     “But I say, walk by the Spirit, do not gratify the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh; for these are opposed to each other, to prevent you from doing what you would.” Gal. 5:16, 17 RSV
     We must remember that when we have been cleansed and renewed in the spirit of our minds, and have put on the new nature, created in true righteousness and holiness, that this does not mean the sinful, fleshly nature. This will be made holy when Jesus comes again. Jesus took the sinful fleshly nature so He could be tempted as we are, but temptation is not sin. The prompting to selfishness, resentment, irritation, impatience, or any other temptation, does not have to be yielded to. God is able to keep us from falling if we submit to Him.
     “The Christian will feel the promptings of sin, for the flesh lusteth against the Spirit; but the Spirit striveth against the flesh, keeping up a constant warfare. Here is where Christ’s help is needed. Human weakness becomes united to divine strength, and faith exclaims, ‘Thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ!’” MYP 114
     “The greatest triumph given us by the religion of Christ is control over ourselves. Our natural propensities must be controlled, or we can never overcome as Christ overcame.” 4T 235     
     “He ‘was in all points tempted like as we are.’ Satan stood ready to assail Him at every step, hurling at Him his fiercest temptations; yet He ‘did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth.’ ‘He . . . suffered being tempted,’ suffered in proportion to the perfection of His holiness. But the prince of darkness found nothing in Him; not a single thought or feeling responded to temptation.” 4T 422
     “Sorely as He was tried on the point of hasty and angry speech, He never once sinned with His lips. With patient calmness He met the sneers, the taunts, and the ridicule of His fellow workers.” 7BC 936
     “Jesus did not contend for His rights. Often His work was made unnecessarily severe because He was willing and uncomplaining. Yet He did not fail nor become discouraged. He lived above these difficulties, as if in the light of God’s countenance. He did not retaliate when roughly used, but bore insult patiently.” DA 89
     “So then, brethren, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh -- for if you live according to the flesh you will die, but if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body you will live. For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. . . . and fellow heirs with Christ provided we suffer with him.” Rom. 8:1217 
     “Christ suffered keenly under abuse and insult. At the hands of the beings whom He had created, and for whom He was making an infinite sacrifice, He received every indignity.” DA 700
     “But while Satan could distress, he could not contaminate. He could cause agony, but not defilement. He made the life of Christ one long scene of conflict and trial.” PK 701
     “You have not a difficulty that did not press with equal weight upon Him, not a sorrow that His heart has not experienced. His feelings could be hurt with neglect, with indifference of professed friends, as easily as yours. Is your path thorny? Christ’s was so in a ten-fold sense. Are you distressed? So was He. How well fitted was Christ to be an example.” OHC 59
     “For even hereunto were ye called: because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example, that ye should follow in his steps: who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth: who, when he was reviled, reviled not again; when he suffered, he threatened not; but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously.” 1 Peter 2:2123
     “Though He had all the strength of passion of humanity, never did He yield to temptation to do one single act which was not pure and elevating and ennobling.” HP 155
     The term passion is itself neutral, simply referring to strong feelings and emotions, good or bad. Christ never allowed His passions to be wrong.
     “And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also might be sanctified through the truth.” John 17:19
     “Sanctification is not an emotion but a heaven-born principle that brings all the passions and desires under the control of the Spirit of God; and this work is done through our Lord and Saviour.” FW 87      
     “In our own strength it is impossible for us to deny the clamors of our fallen nature. Through this channel Satan will bring temptation upon us. Christ knew that the enemy would come to every human being, to take advantage of hereditary weakness, and by his false insinuations to ensnare all whose trust is not in God. And by passing over the ground which man must travel, our Lord has prepared the way for us to overcome.” DA 122   
     “His example declares that our only hope of eternal life is through bring-ing the appetites and passions into subjection to the will of God.” DA 122
     “Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves with the same thought, for whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin, so as to live for the rest of the time in the flesh no longer by human passions, but by the will of God.” 1 Peter 4:1, 2 RSV   
     “Strength of character consists of two things - power of will and power of self-control. Many youth mistake strong, uncontrolled passion for strength of character; but the truth is that he who is mastered by his passions is a weak man. The real greatness and nobility of the man is measured by his powers to subdue his feelings, not by the power of his feelings to subdue him. The strongest man is he who, while sensitive to abuse, will yet restrain passion and forgive his enemies.” CG 161, 162  
     “The lower passions have their seat in the body and work through it. The words ‘flesh’ or ‘fleshly’ or ‘carnal lusts’ embrace the lower, corrupt nature; the flesh of itself cannot act contrary to the will of God. We are commanded to crucify the flesh with the affections and lusts. How shall we do it? Shall we inflict pain on the body? No; but put to death the temptation to sin. The corrupt thought is to be expelled. Every thought is to be brought into captivity to Jesus Christ. All animal propensities are to be subjected to the higher powers of the soul. The love of God must reign supreme; Christ must occupy an undivided throne. Our bodies are to be regarded as His purchased possession. The members of the body are to become instruments of righteousness.” AH 127, 128
     “And those who belong to Christ have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires.” Gal. 5:24 RSV
     “Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that ye should obey it in the lusts thereof. Neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin; but yield yourselves unto God, as those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God.” Rom. 6:12, 13
     “The human agent is to cooperate with God, and keep under those passions which should be held in subjection. To do this he must be unwearied in his prayers to God, ever obtaining grace to control his spirit, temper, and actions.” 1SM 380, 381
     “As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance, but as he who called you is holy, be holy yourselves in all your conduct.” 1 Peter 1:1416 RSV
     “For if you live according to the flesh you will die, but if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body you will live.” Rom. 8:13
     “Put your whole being into the Lord’s hands, soul, body, and spirit, and resolve to be His loving, consecrated agency, moved by His will, controlled by His mind, infused by His Spirit.” SD 105
     “Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that in due time he may exalt you. Cast all your anxieties on him, for he cares about you. Be sober, be watchful. Your adversary the devil prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking some one to devour. Resist him, firm in your faith, knowing that the same experience of suffering is required of your brotherhood throughout the world.” 1 Peter 5:69
     “Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world. And the world passes away, and the lust thereof: but he that does the will of God abides for ever.” 1John 2:1517 
     “Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful.” Heb. 10:23

