Chapter 8: Do Not Resist His Drawing
     “Incline your ear, and come unto me: hear, and your soul shall live.” Isa. 55:3
     “The light shining from the cross reveals the love of God. His love is drawing us to Himself. If we do not resist this drawing, we shall be led to the foot of the cross in repentance for the sins that have crucified the Saviour. Then the Spirit of God through faith produces a new life in the soul. The thoughts and desires are brought into obedience to the will of Christ. The heart, the mind, are created anew in the image of him who works in us to subdue all things to Himself.” DA 175, 176
     “Every one that will submit to be ransomed, Christ will rescue from the pit of corruption and from the briers of sin.” COL 188
     “The way has been made clear for all those who choose to hear, repent, and believe. All heaven is waiting the sinner’s cooperation, and the only barrier that stands in his way is one which he alone can remove, his own will. He must submit to the will of God, and through repentance and faith, come unto God for salvation. No one will be forced against his will; Christ draws, but never compels.” RH 3241896
     “How shall we escape, if we neglect so great salvation?” Heb. 2:3
     If we do not realize our lost condition, it is easy to neglect that great salvation. The foolish virgins, Nicodemus, the lukewarm, and I, all thought we were in a saving relationship and therefore neglected to study so we could understand our true condition. God knew I was a foolish virgin and so He tried to get my attention. Year after year my conscience would prompt me to study! study!! study!!! God knew if I would just sit down and do some serious searching to understand the plan of salvation, I would realize my lost condition. But it was only when my father cried for help that I finally took the time to do that and discovered my situation.
     “In one way only can a true knowledge of self be obtained. We must behold Christ! It is ignorance of Him that makes men so uplifted in their own righteousness. When we contemplate His purity and excellence, we shall see ourselves lost and hopeless, clad in garments of self-righteousness, like every other sinner. We shall see that if we are ever saved, it will not be through our own goodness, but through God’s infinite grace.” COL 159  
     What can He do when we realize our need?

