Chapter 47: God Will Seal His People                                        
     “And I saw another angel ascending from the east, having the seal of the living God: and he cried with a loud voice to the four angels, to whom it was given to hurt the earth and the sea, saying, Hurt not the earth, neither the sea, nor the trees, till we have sealed the servants of our God in their foreheads.” Rev. 7:2, 3
     “The living righteous will receive the seal of God prior to the close of probation.” 1SM 66
     “Now is the time to prepare. The seal of God will never be placed upon the forehead of an impure man of woman. It will never be placed upon the forehead of the ambitious, world-loving man or woman. It will never be placed upon the forehead of men or women of false tongues or deceitful hearts. All who receive the seal must be without spot before God.” 5T 216
     “The pure and holy garments are not prepared to be put on by any one after he has entered the gate of the city. All who enter will have on the robe of Christ’s righteousness, and the name of God will be seen in their foreheads. This name is the symbol which the apostle saw in vision, and signifies the yielding of the mind to intelligent and loyal obedience to all of God’s commandments.” SD 370
     “The Lord has shown me the danger of letting our minds be filled with worldly thoughts and cares. . . . for if the mind is filled with other things, present truth is shut out, and there is no place in our foreheads for the seal of the living God. . . .
     “The sealing time is very short, and will soon be over. Now is the time, while the four angels are holding the four winds, to make our calling and election sure.” EW 58
    ‘“Many are called, but few are chosen.’ Many hear the invitation of mercy, are tested and proved; but few are sealed with the seal of the living God. Few will humble themselves as a little child, that they may enter the kingdom of heaven.” 5T 50
     “The seal of the living God will be placed upon those only who bear a likeness to Christ in character.” 7BC 970
     “As wax takes the impression of the seal, so the soul is to take the impression of the Spirit of God and retain the image of Christ.” 7BC 970
     “The great mass of professing Christians will meet with bitter dis-appointment in the day of God. They have not upon their foreheads the seal of the living God.” 7BC 970   
     “Just as soon as the people of God are sealed in their foreheads - it is not any seal or mark that can be seen, but a settling into truth, both intellectually and spiritually, so they cannot be moved - just as soon as God’s people are sealed and prepared for the shaking, it will come. Indeed, it has begun already; the judgments of God are now upon the land, to give us warning, that we may know what is coming.” 4BC 1161

