Chapter36: For the Hour of His Judgment Is Come
     “Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come: and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters.” Rev. 14:7
     “For the time is come that judgment must begin at the house of God: and if it first begin at us, What shall the end be of them that obey not the gospel of God?” 1 Peter 4:17, 18
     “Profession alone is nothing. Names are registered upon the church books upon earth, but not in the book of life.” 1T 504
     “As the books of record are opened in the judgment, the lives of all who have believed on Jesus come in review before God. Beginning with those who first lived upon the earth, our Advocate presents the cases of each successive generation, and closes with the living. Every name is mentioned, every case closely investigated. Names are accepted, names are rejected. When any have sins remaining upon the books of record, unrepented of and unforgiven, their names will be blotted out of the book of God’s remembrance. The Lord declared to Moses: ‘Whosoever hath sinned against me, him will I blot out of my book.’ Ex.32:33. And says the prophet Ezekiel: ‘When the righteous turneth away from his righteousness, and committeth iniquity, . . . all his righteousness that he hath done shall not be mentioned.’ Eze. 18:24
     “All who have truly repented of sin, and by faith claimed the blood of Christ as their atoning sacrifice, have had pardon entered against their names in the books of heaven; as they have become partakers of the righteousness of Christ, and their characters are found to be in harmony with the law of God, their sins will be blotted out, and they themselves will be accounted worthy of eternal life.” GC 483
     “I, even I, am he that blotteth out thy transgressions for mine own sake, and will not remember thy sins.” Isa. 43: 25
     "Now is the time when we are to confess and forsake our sins that they may go beforehand to judgment and be blotted out. Now is the time to ‘cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God.’ 2 Cor. 7:1” HP 348
     “The grand judgment is taking place, and has been going on for some time. Now the Lord says, Measure the temple and the worshipers thereof. Remember when you are walking the streets about your business, God is measuring you; when you are attending your household duties, when you engage in conversation, God is measuring you. . . .
     “Here is the work going on, measuring the temple and its worshipers to see who will stand in the last day. Those who stand fast shall have an abundant entrance into the kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. When we are doing our work remember there is One that is watching the spirit in which we are doing it.” 7BC 972     
     “All the ways of a man are clean in his own eyes; but the Lord weigheth the spirit.” Prov. 16:2
     Every day God is watching you to help you to stand, to keep you in the right spirit. He alerts you and helps you to repent if you fail. He wants you to learn to let His Spirit control you at all times.   
     “Let us, as Christ's followers, search our hearts as with a lighted candle to see what manner of spirit we are of. For our present and eternal good, let us criticize our actions, to see how they stand in the light of the law of God. For this law is our standard.” 7BC 986
     “Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter; Fear God, and keep his commandments: for this is the whole duty of man. For God shall bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing, whether it be good, or whether it be evil.” Ecc. 12:13, 14    
     “God’s law looks into the secrets of the heart. Every act is judged by the motives that prompt it. Only that which is in accord with the principles of God’s law will stand in the judgment.” COL 316   
     “God’s law reaches the feelings and motives, as well as the outward acts. It reveals the secrets of the heart, flashing light upon things before buried in darkness. God knows every thought, every purpose, every plan, every motive. The books of heaven record the sins that would have been committed had there been opportunity. God will bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing. By His law He measures the character of every man.” 5BC 1085
     Secret sins are not unconscious sins. They are sins you have in your heart and mind, but you have not acted on them outwardly.
     “The law of God takes note of the jealousy, envy, hatred, malignity, revenge, lust, and ambition that surge through the soul, but have not found expression in outward action, because the opportunity, not the will, has been wanting. And these sinful emotions will be brought into the account in the day when ‘God shall bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing, whether it be good, or whether it be evil.’ Ecc. 12:14.” 1SM 217
     “For nothing is secret, that shall not be made manifest.” Luke 8:17
     “God reads purposes and motives. Every work and every secret thing is open to His all-seeing eye. No thought, word, or action escapes His notice. He knows whether we love and glorify Him or please and exalt ourselves. He knows whether we set our affections upon things above . . . or upon things earthly, sensual, and devilish.” 4T 646
     “He who finds pleasure in dwelling upon scenes of impurity, who indulges the evil thought, the lustful look, may behold in the open sin, with its burdens of shame and heart-breaking grief, the true nature of the evil which he has hidden in the chambers of the soul.” MB 60
     “God’s eye does not slumber. He knows every sin that is hidden from mortal eyes. The guilty know just what sins to confess that their souls may be clean before God. Jesus is now giving them opportunity to confess, to repent in deep humility, and purify their lives by obeying and living out the truth.” 1T 156
     “The law requires that the soul itself be pure and the mind holy, that the thoughts and feelings may be in accordance with the standard of love and righteousness.” 1SM 211
     “If the thoughts are wrong, the feelings will be wrong; and the thoughts and feelings combined make up the moral character.” HP 164
     “Moral perfection is required of all.” COL 330
     “It is the spiritual and moral character that is of value in the sight of heaven, and that will survive the grave and be made glorious with immortality for the endless ages of eternity.” 1SM 259
     “As we near the judgment, all will manifest their true character, and it will be made plain to what company they belong.” 1T 100
     “All who would have their names retained in the book of life should now, in the few remaining days of their probation, afflict their souls before God by sorrow for sin and true repentance. There must be deep, faithful searching of heart.” GC 490  
     “I saw that many would fall this side of the kingdom. God is testing and proving His people, and many will not endure the test of character, the measurement of God. Many will have close work to overcome their peculiar traits of character and be without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, unrebukable before God and man.” 1T 533

