Chapter 42: Keep His Commandments
     “Fear God, and keep his commandments: for this is the whole duty of man. For God shall bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing, whether it be good, or whether it be evil.” Ecc. 12:13, 14
     “Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets.” Matt. 22:3740
     “I am the Lord thy God, . . . Thou shalt have no other gods before me.” Ex. 20:2, 3
     “Whatever we cherish that tends to lessen our love for God or to interfere with the service due Him, of that do we make a god.” SD 56
     “Little children, keep yourselves from idols.” 1 John 5:21
     “Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth: Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them: for I the Lord thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me; and shewing mercy unto thousands of them that love me, and keep my commandments.” Ex. 20:46
     “Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain; for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain.” Ex. 20:7
     “This commandment not only prohibits false oaths and common swearing, but it forbids us to use the name of God in a light or careless manner. . . . By the thoughtless mention of God in common conversation, by appeals to Him in trivial matters, and by the frequent and thoughtless repetition of His name, we dishonor Him.” PP 306
     “To pray in Christ’s name means much. It means that we are to accept His character, manifest His spirit, and work His works.” DA 668
     “Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days thou shalt labour, and do all thy work: but the seventh day is the sabbath of the Lord thy God: in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates: for in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day; wherefore the Lord blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it.” Ex. 20:811
     “God has given men six days wherein to labor, and He requires that their own work be done in six working days. Acts of necessity and mercy are permitted on the Sabbath, the sick and suffering are at all times to be cared for; but unnecessary labor is to be strictly avoided.” PP 307
     “Blessed is the man that doeth this, and the Son of man that layeth hold on it; that keepeth the sabbath from polluting it, and keepeth his hand from doing evil.” Isa. 56:2 
     “There is need of Sabbath reform among us, who profess to observe God’s holy rest day. Some discuss their business matters and lay plans on the Sabbath, and God looks upon this in the same light as though they engaged in the actual transaction of business.” Ev. 245
     “If thou turn away thy foot from the sabbath, from doing thy pleasure on my holy day; and call the sabbath a delight, the holy of the Lord, honorable; and shalt honor him, not doing thine own pleasure, nor speaking thine own words: then shalt thou delight thyself in the Lord; and I will cause thee to ride upon the high places of the earth, and will feed thee with the heritage of Jacob thy father: for the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it.” Isa. 58:13, 14
     “We should jealously guard the edges of the Sabbath. Remember that every moment is consecrated, holy time.” 6T 356
     “But in order to keep the Sabbath holy, men must themselves be holy. Through faith they must become partakers of the righteousness of Christ.” DA 283
     “Honor thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee.” Ex. 20:12
     “The fifth commandment requires children not only to yield respect, submission, and obedience to their parents, but also to give them love and tenderness, to lighten their cares, to guard their reputation, and to succor and comfort them in old age. It also enjoins respect for ministers and rulers and for all others to whom God has delegated authority.” PP 308
     “Thou shalt not kill.” Ex. 20:13
     “Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer: and ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him.” 1 John 3:15
     “All acts of injustice that tend to shorten life; the spirit of hatred or revenge, or the indulgence of any passion that leads to injurious acts toward others, or causes us even to wish them harm; a selfish neglect of caring for the needy or suffering; all self-indulgence or unnecessary deprivation or excessive labor that tends to injure health - all these are, to a greater or less degree, violations of the sixth commandment.” PP 308 
     “Thou shalt not commit adultery.” Ex. 20:14
     “This commandment forbids not only acts of impurity, but sensual thoughts and desires, or any practice that tends to excite them. Purity is demanded not only in the outward life but in the secret intents and emotions of the heart. Christ, who taught the far-reaching obligation of the law of God, declared the evil thought or look to be as truly sin as is the unlawful deed.” PP 308
     “If we would not commit sin, we must shun its very beginnings. Every emotion and desire must be held in subjection to reason and conscience. Every unholy thought must be instantly repelled.” 5T 177 
     “When impure thoughts are cherished, they need not be expressed by word or act to consummate the sin and bring the soul into condemnation.” 4T 623 
     “Thou shalt not steal.” Ex. 20:15
     “The eighth commandment condemns theft and robbery. It demands strict integrity in the minutest details of the affairs of life. It forbids over-reaching in trade, and requires the payment of just debts or wages. It declares that every attempt to advantage oneself by the ignorance, weakness, or mis-fortune of another is registered as fraud in the books of heaven.”     PP 309
     “Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor.” Ex. 20:16
     “False speaking in any matter, every attempt or purpose to deceive our neighbor, is here included. An intention to deceive is what constitutes falsehood. By a glance of the eye, a motion of the hand, an expression of the countenance, a falsehood may be told as effectually as by words. All intentional overstatement, every hint or insinuation calculated to convey an erroneous or exaggerated impression, even the statement of facts in such a manner as to mislead, is falsehood. This precept forbids every effort to injure our neighbor’s reputation by misrepresentation or evil surmising, by slander or tale bearing. Even the intentional suppression of truth, by which injury may result to others, is a violation of the ninth commandment.”       PP 309 
     “Wherefore lay aside all malice, and all guile, and hypocrisies, and envies, and all evil speakings.” 1 Peter 2:1  
     “Let your communication be, Yea, yea; Nay, nay: for whatsoever is more than these cometh of evil.” Matt. 5:37
     “These words condemn all those meaningless phrases and expletives that border on profanity. They condemn the deceptive compliments, the evasion of truth, the flattering phrases, the exaggerations, the misrepresentations in trade, that are current in society and in the business world. They teach that no one who tries to appear what he is not, or whose words do not convey the real sentiment of his heart, can be called truthful. . . .
     “Everything that Christians do should be as transparent as the sunlight. Truth is of God; deception, in every one of its myriad forms is of Satan; and whoever in any way departs from the straight line of truth is betraying himself into the power of the wicked one.” MB 68    
     “Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor’s house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor’s wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor anything that is thy neighbor’s.” Ex. 20:17
     “The tenth commandment strikes at the very root of all sins, prohibiting the selfish desire, from which springs the sinful act.” PP 309
     “To live for self is to perish. Covetousness, the desire of benefit for self’s sake, cuts the soul off from life. It is the spirit of Satan to get, to draw to self. It is the spirit of Christ to give, to sacrifice self for the good of others.” COL 259
     “For this, Thou shalt not commit adultery, Thou shalt not kill, Thou shalt not steal, Thou shalt not bear false witness, Thou shalt not covet; and if there be any other commandment, it is briefly comprehended in this saying, namely, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Love worketh no ill to his neighbor: therefore love is the fulfilling of the law.” Rom. 13:9, 10
     “For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.
     “You have heard that it was said to the men of old, ‘you shall not kill; and whoever kills shall be liable to the judgment.’ But I say to you that every one who is angry with his brother shall be liable to judgment; . . . So if you are offering your gift at the altar, and there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there before the altar and go; first be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift. . . .
     “You have heard that it was said, ‘You shall not commit adultery.’ But I say to you that every one who looks at a woman lustfully has already committed adultery with her in his heart. . . .
     “It was also said, ‘Whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce.’ But I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife, except on the ground of unchastity, makes her an adulteress; and whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery.
     “Again you have heard that it was said to the men of old, ‘You shall not swear falsely, but shall perform to the Lord what you have sworn.’ But I say to you, Do not swear at all, . . . Let what you say be simply ‘Yes’ or ‘No’; anything more than this comes from evil.
     “You have heard that it was said, ‘An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.’ But I say to you, Do not resist one who is evil. But if any one strikes you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also; and if any one would sue you and take your coat, let him have your cloak as well; and if any one forces you to go one mile, go with him two miles. Give to him who begs from you, and do not refuse him who would borrow from you.
     “You have heard that it was said, ‘You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy.’ But I say to you, Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven; for he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust. For if you love those who love you, what reward have you? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? And if you salute only your brethren, what more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same? You, therefore, must be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect.” Matt. 5:2048 RSV    
     “The disciples of Christ must obtain righteousness of a different character from that of the Pharisees, if they would enter the kingdom of heaven. God offered them, in His Son, the perfect righteousness of the law. If they would open their hearts fully to receive Christ, then the very life of God, His love, would dwell in them, transforming them into His own likeness; and thus through God’s free gift they would possess the righteousness which the law requires . . . a reproduction in themselves of the character of Christ.” MB 54, 55 
     “The law of God, as presented in the Scriptures, is broad in its require-ments. Every principle is holy, just, and good. The law lays men under obligation to God; it reaches to the thoughts and feelings; and it will produce conviction of sin in every one who is sensible of having transgressed its requirements. If the law extended to the outward conduct only, men would not be guilty in their wrong thoughts, desires, and designs. But the law requires that the soul itself be pure and the mind holy, that the thoughts and feelings be in accordance with the standard of love and righteousness.
     “In His teachings, Christ showed how far-reaching are the principles of the law spoken from Sinai. He made a living application of that law whose principles remain forever the great standard of righteousness; the standard by which all shall be judged in that great day when the judgment shall sit, and the books shall be opened. He came to fulfill all righteousness, and, as the head of humanity, to show man that he can do the same work, meeting every specification of the requirements of God. Through the measure of His grace furnished to the human agent, not one need miss heaven. Perfection of character is attainable by every one who strives for it. This is made the very foundation of the new covenant of the gospel.” 1SM 211, 212
     “For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do; sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh, in order that the just requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh but according to the Spirit.” Rom. 8:3,4 RSV  
     “For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments: and his commandments are not grievous.” 1 John 5:3    
     “The Jews had so perverted the law that they made it a yoke of bondage. Their meaningless requirements had become a byword among other nations.” DA 204
     “For they bind heavy burdens and grievous to be borne, and lay them on men’s shoulders.” Matt. 23:4
     “It is the desire and plan of Satan to bring in among us those who will go to great extremes. . . . They will be exacting, and will seek to enforce rigorous duties, and go to great lengths in matters of minor importance, while they neglect the weightier matters of the law: judgment and mercy and the love of God.” Ev. 212
     “He hath shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?” Micah 6:8
     The important thing is to know that your heart is fully surrendered and then learn what God would want you to do in following the reforms.
     “Closely examine your own hearts, and in your lives imitate the unerring Pattern, and all will be well with you.” 2T 71
     “In matters of conscience the soul must be left untrammeled. No one is to control another’s mind, to judge for another, or to prescribe his duty. God gives to every soul freedom to think, and to follow his own convictions. ‘Every one of us shall give account of himself to God.’ No one has the right to merge his own individuality in that of another. In all matters where principle is involved, ‘let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind.’ Rom. 14:12, 5.” DA 550  
     “And herein do I exercise myself, to have always a conscience void of offence toward God, and toward men.” Acts 24:16  
     “Happy is he that condemneth not himself in that thing which he allows.” Rom.14:22
     “It is the privilege of every one to so live that God will approve and bless him. You may be hourly in communion with Heaven; it is not the will of your heavenly Father that you should ever be under condemnation and darkness. . . . You should cultivate self-respect by living so that you will be approved by your own conscience, and before men and angels.” KH 140    
     “Blessed are those whose way is blameless, who walk in the law of the Lord! Blessed are those who keep his testimonies, who seek him with their whole heart, who also do no wrong, but walk in his ways?” Ps. 119:13

