Chapter 33: Trust God and Endure the Trial of Your Faith                                                    
     “Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened unto you: but rejoice, inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ’s sufferings; that, when his glory is revealed, ye may be glad also with exceeding joy.” 1 Peter 4:12, 13
     “For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind. Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, . . . but be thou partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God.” 2 Tim. 1:7, 8
     “And fear not them which kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul: rather fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell.” Matt. 10:28
     “Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time: casting all your care upon him; for he careth for you. Be sober, be vigilant; because your adversary the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour: whom resist stedfast in the faith, knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren that are in the world. But the God of all grace, who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after that ye have suffered a while, make you perfect, stablish, strengthen, settle you.” 1 Peter 5:610
     “Commit thy way unto the Lord; trust also in him; and he shall bring it to pass. And he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judg-ment as the noonday. Rest in the Lord, and wait patiently for him.” Ps. 37:5
     “We know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose.” Rom. 8:28
     “All our sufferings and sorrows, all our temptations and trials, all our sadness and griefs, all our persecutions and privations, in short, all things work together for our good. All experiences and circumstances are God’s workmen whereby good is brought to us.” MH 489
     “Have faith in God.” Mark 11:22
     “Trust in Him at all times.” Ps. 62:8
     “The Lord is faithful, who shall stablish you, and keep you from evil.”     2 Thess. 3:3
     “The Father's presence encircled Christ, and nothing befell Him but that which infinite love permitted for the blessing of the world. Here was His source of comfort, and it is for us. He who is imbued with the Spirit of Christ abides in Christ. The blow that is aimed at him falls upon the Saviour, who surrounds him with His presence. Whatever comes to him comes from Christ. He has no need to resist evil, for Christ is his defense. Nothing can touch him except by our Lord’s permission, and ‘all things’ that are permitted, ‘work together for good to them that love God.’” MB 71
     “May you be strengthened with all power, according to his glorious might, for all endurance and patience with joy, giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified us to share in the inheritance of the saints in light.”       Col. 1:11, 12 RSV

Section 3: UNDERSTAND AND EXPERIENCE AND PREACH THE THREE ANGELS’ MESSAGES
     “And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, saying with a loud voice, ‘Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come: and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters.’
     “And there followed another angel, saying, ‘Babylon is fallen, is fallen, that great city, because she made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication.’
     “And the third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, ‘If any man worship the beast and his image, and receive his mark in his forehead, or in his hand, the same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out without mixture into the cup of his indignation; and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels, and in the presence of the Lamb: and the smoke of their torment ascendeth up for ever and ever: and they have no rest day nor night, who worship the beast and his image, and whosoever receiveth the mark of his name.’
     “Here is the patience of the saints; here are they that keep the commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus.” Rev. 14:612
     “I was shown three steps - the first, second, and third angels’ messages. Said my accompanying angel, ‘Woe to him who shall move a block or stir a pin of these messages. The true understanding of these messages is of vital importance. The destiny of souls hangs upon the manner in which they are received.’” EW 258, 259
     “Those who have had no experience in the first and second angels’ messages must receive them from others who had an experience and followed down through the messages. As Jesus was rejected, so I saw that these messages have been rejected. As the disciples declared that there is salvation in no other name under heaven, given among men, so also should the servants of God faithfully and fearlessly warn those who embrace but a part of the truths connected with the third message, that they must gladly receive all the messages as God has given them, or have no part in the matter.” EW 188, 189
     What are the truths in the third message which we are most likely to embrace? That we will receive the mark of the beast if we do not keep the commandments of God, especially the Sabbath. Having the faith of Jesus is often overlooked, and yet without that faith we have not experienced even the first angel’s message, which is the everlasting gospel, making it possible for us to obey God’s law in the heart.
     “Many who embraced the third message had not had an experience in the two former messages. Satan understood this, and his evil eye was upon them to overthrow them; but the third angel was pointing them to the most holy place, and those who had had an experience in the past messages were pointing them the way to the heavenly sanctuary. Many saw the perfect chain of truth in the angels’ messages, and gladly received them in their order, and followed Jesus by faith into the heavenly sanctuary. These messages were represented to me as an anchor to the people of God. Those who understand and receive them will be kept from being swept away by the many delusions of Satan.” EW 256

     The third angel was pointing them to the most holy place where the law is under the mercy seat. Those who had experienced the gospel could show them how to enter the sanctuary through repentance, surrender, cleansing by the blood and regeneration by water and the Spirit. Then through the ministry of Christ in the holy place they would receive the Holy Spirit in the life, they would be fed with the spiritual bread, and through Christ working in them His righteousness they could live His character, thus fulfilling the just requirements of the law which is in the most holy place, by which they will be judged.
     “All should understand the truths contained in these messages and demonstrate them in daily life, for this is essential to salvation.” Ev.196
     Now we will examine the messages in the order and manner in which they are given.

