Chapter 23: He Will Be Your Advocate if You Fall
     “My little children, these things write I unto you, that ye sin not. And if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous.” 1 John 2:1
     “The instant man accepted the temptations of Satan, and did the very things God had said he should not do, Christ, the Son of God, stood between the living and the dead, saying, ‘Let the punishment fall on Me. I will stand in man’s place. He shall have another chance.’” 1BC 1085
     What does the Advocate do? He gives us another chance.
     “How careful is the Lord Jesus to give no occasion for the soul to despair. How He fences about the soul from Satan’s fierce attacks. If through manifold temptations we are surprised or deceived into sin, He does not turn from us and leave us to perish. No, no, that is not our Saviour. Christ prayed for us.” 7BC 948
     “Christ . . . is even at the right hand of God, who also maketh inter-cession for us.” Rom. 8:34
     When Peter was denying his Lord, Jesus was praying for him and longing to help him.  
     “And the same compassion that reached out to rescue Peter is extended to every soul who has fallen under temptation. It is Satan’s special device to lead man into sin, and then leave him, helpless and trembling, fearing to seek for pardon. But why should we fear, when God has said, ‘Let him take hold of my strength, that he may make peace with me; and he shall make peace with me.’ Isa. 27:5. Every provision has been made for our infirmities, every encouragement offered to come to Christ.” COL 156    
     “To go forward without stumbling, we must have the assurance that a hand all-powerful will hold us up, and an infinite pity be exercised toward us if we fall. God alone can at all times hear our cry for help.” SD 154 
     Often when children fail, the parents scold them and punish them and discourage them, but Jesus is not like that.
     “The Lord . . . is longsuffering to usward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance.” 2 Peter 3:9
     “The Lord bears long with the waywardness of men, and to all He grants opportunity to see and forsake their sins.” PP 626
     “A silent witness guards every soul that lives, seeking to win and draw him to Christ. The angels never leave the tempted one a prey to the enemy who would destroy the souls of men if permitted to do so. As long as there is hope, until they resist the Holy Spirit to their eternal ruin, men are guarded by heavenly intelligences.” OHC 23
     “The divine Teacher bears with the erring through all their perversity. His love does not grow cold; His efforts to win them do not cease. With outstretched arms He waits to welcome again and again the erring, the rebellious, and even the apostate. His heart is touched with the helplessness of the little child subject to rough usage. The cry of human suffering never reaches His ear in vain. Though all are precious in His sight, the rough, sullen, stubborn dispositions draw most heavily upon His sympathy and love; for He traces from cause to effect. The one who is most easily tempted, and is most inclined to err, is the special object of His solicitude.” Ed 294
     “Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. For he knoweth our frame; he remembereth that we are dust.” Ps. 103:13, 14       
      “We shall often have to bow down and weep at the feet of Jesus because of our shortcomings and mistakes; but we are not to be discouraged. Even if we are overcome by the enemy, we are not cast off, not forsaken and rejected of God. No; Christ is at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us. Says the beloved John, ‘These things write I unto you, that you sin not. And if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous.’ And do not forget the words of Christ, ‘The Father himself loveth you.’ He desires to restore you to Himself, to see His own purity and holiness reflected in you. And if you will but yield yourself to Him, He that hath begun a good work in you will carry it forward to the day of Jesus Christ. Pray more fervently; believe more fully.” SC 64 
     “All are fallible, all make mistakes and fall into sin; but if the wrongdoer is willing to see his errors, as they are made plain by the convicting Spirit of God, and in humility of heart will confess them, . . . then he may be restored.” KH 238           
     “Have you fallen into sin? Then without delay seek God for mercy and pardon. . . . Mercy is still extended to the sinner. The Lord is calling to us in all our wanderings: ‘Return, ye backsliding children, and I will heal your backslidings.’ The blessing of God may be ours if we will heed the pleading voice of His Spirit.” 5T 177     
     “Remember this. If you have made mistakes, you certainly gain a victory if you see these mistakes, and regard them as beacons of warning. Thus you turn defeat into victory, disappointing the enemy, and honoring your Redeemer.” COL 332
     “For the Lord your God is gracious and merciful, and will not turn away his face from you, if you return to him.” 2 Chron. 30:9

