Chapter 45: The 1888 Message Was a Revival of True Righteousness
     “Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world.”  John 1:29
     “The Lord in His great mercy sent a most precious message to His people. . . .This message was to bring more prominently before the world the uplifted Saviour, the sacrifice for the sins of the whole world. It pre-sented justification through faith in the Surety; it invited the people to receive the righteousness of Christ, which is made manifest in obedience to all the commandments of God. Many had lost sight of Jesus. They needed to have their eyes directed to His divine person, His merits, and His change-less love for the human family. All power is given into His hands that He may dispense rich gifts unto men, imparting the priceless gift of His own righteousness to the helpless human agent. This is the message that God commanded to be given to the world. It is the third angel’s message, which is to be proclaimed with a loud voice, and attended with the outpouring of His Spirit in a large measure.” TM 91, 92   
     “God’s remnant people are to fill the earth with the cry of the third angel. ‘Here is the patience of the saints: here are they that keep the commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus.’” RH 7161901   
     “It has been necessary to exalt the great standard of righteousness, but in doing this, many have neglected to preach the faith of Jesus. If we would have the spirit and power of the third angel’s message, we must present the law and the gospel together, for they go hand in hand.” RH 931889
     “The gospel is to be presented, not as a lifeless theory, but as a living force to change the life. God desires that the receivers of His grace shall be witnesses to its power.” DA 826
     “For I am not ashamed of the gospel: it is the power of God for salvation to every one who has faith, . . . ‘He who through faith is righteous shall live.’” Rom. 1:16, 17 
     “We need to be enlightened in regard to the plan of salvation. There is not one in one hundred who understands for himself the Bible truth on this subject that is so necessary to our present and eternal welfare.
     “The enemy of man and God is not willing that this truth should be clearly presented; for he knows that if the people receive it fully, his power will be broken. . . . God’s people must have that faith which will lay hold of divine power, ‘for by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves: it is the gift of God.’” RH 931889   
     “Some will not make a right use of the doctrine of justification by faith. They will present it in a one-sided manner, making everything of faith, and belittling works. Others will seize the points that have a leaning towards error, and will ignore works altogether. Now genuine faith always works by love; it supplies a motive power.” RH 1241893   
     “Unless divine power is brought into the experience of the people of God, false theories and erroneous ideas will take minds captive, Christ and His righteousness will be dropped out of the experience of many, and their faith will be without power or life.” RH 931889
     “The faith essential for salvation is not a mere nominal faith, but an abiding principle, deriving vital power from Christ. It will lead the soul to feel the love of Christ to such a degree that the character will be refined, purified, ennobled. This faith in Christ is not merely an impulse, but a power that works by love and purifies the soul. It accomplishes something, bringing the soul under discipline, elevating it from defilement, and bringing it into connection with Christ, till it appropriates His virtue to the soul’s need. This is saving faith.” RH 8181891
     “Take this message in all its phases and sound it forth to the people wherever Providence opens the way. Justification by faith and the right-eousness of Christ are the themes to be presented to a perishing world.” 7BC 964
     “You will meet with those who will say, ‘You are too much excited over this matter. You are too much in earnest. You should not be reaching for the righteousness of Christ, and making so much of that. You should preach the law.’ As a people, we have preached the law until we are as dry as the hills of Gilboa that had neither dew nor rain. We must preach Christ in the law, and there will be sap and nourishment in the preaching.” RH 310-1890
     “The law of God is to be magnified; its claims must be presented in their true, sacred character, that the people may be brought to decide for or against the truth. Yet the work will be cut short in righteousness. The message of Christ's righteousness is to sound from one end of the earth to the other to prepare the way of the Lord. This is the glory of God, which closes the work of the third angel.” 6T 19

