Chapter 26: Help to Restore the Fallen
     “Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such an one in the spirit of meekness; considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted.” Gal. 6:1, 2   
     “It is always humiliating to have one’s errors pointed out. Do not make the experience more bitter by needless censure. Unkind criticism brings dis-couragement, making life sunless and unhappy.
     “My brethren, prevail by love rather than severity. When one at fault becomes conscious of his error, be careful not to destroy his self-respect. Do not seek to bruise and wound, but rather to bind up and heal.” 7T 265
     “As for those who persist in sin, rebuke them in the presence of all, so that the rest may stand in fear.” 1 Tim. 5:20 RSV
     “Christ has plainly taught that those who persist in open sin must be separated from the church, but He has not committed to us the work of judging character and motive.” COL 71
     ‘“Judge not, that ye be not judged.’ Do not think yourself better than other men, and set yourself up as their judge. Since you cannot discern motive you are incapable of judging another.”  DA 314
     “He that judgeth me is the Lord. Therefore judge nothing before the time, until the Lord come, who both will bring to light hidden things of darkness, and will make manifest the counsels of the heart.” 1 Cor. 4:4, 5
     “Judging and reproving are two different things. God has laid upon His servants the work of reproving in love those who err; but He has for-bidden and denounced the thoughtless judging so common among professed believers.” RH 10291901
     “Talk courage to the people; lift them up to God in prayer. Many who have been overcome by temptation are humiliated by their failures, and they feel that it is in vain for them to approach unto God; but this thought is of the enemy’s suggestion. When they have sinned, and feel that they cannot pray, tell them that it is then the time to pray. Ashamed they may be, and deeply humbled; but as they confess their sins, He who is faithful and just will forgive their sins and cleanse them from all unrighteousness.” MH 181
     “If he turn from his sin, and do that which is lawful and right; if the wicked restore the pledge, give again that he had robbed, walk in the statutes of life, without committing iniquity; he shall surely live, he shall not die.” Eze. 33:14, 15
     “It is not now too late for wrongs to be righted. Show your repentance for past wrongs by redeeming the time. Where you have wronged anyone, make restitution as it comes to your mind. This is your only hope of the pardoning love of God.” 3T 549, 550
     “Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance.” Luke 3:8
     “If we have injured others through any unjust business transaction, . . .we should confess our wrong, and make restitution as far as lies in our power.” DA 556
     “You cannot make every case right, for some whom you have injured have gone into their graves, and the account stands registered against you. In these cases the best you can do is to bring a trespass offering to the altar of the Lord, and He will accept and pardon you. But where you can, make reparation to the wronged ones.” 5T 339
     “When a man is guilty, . . . he shall confess the sin he has committed.” Lev. 5:5
     “The guilty know just what sins to confess that their souls may be clean before God.” 1T 156
     “If there have been difficulties, . . . if envy, malice, bitterness, evil surmisings, have existed, confess these sins, not in a general way, but go to your brethren and sisters personally. Be definite. If you have committed one wrong and they twenty, confess that one as though you were the chief offender. Take them by the hand, let your heart soften under the influence of the Spirit of God, and say, ‘Will you forgive me?’” OHC 370 
     “Put on then, as God’s chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassion, kindness, lowliness, meekness, and patience, forbearing one another and, if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other; just as the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive. And above all these put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony. And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in the one body.” Col. 3:1215   

