Chapter 21: All Will Be Tempted - Temptation Is Not Sin
     “Let no one say when he is tempted, ‘I am tempted by God’; for God cannot be tempted with evil and he himself tempts no one; but each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. Then desire when it has conceived gives birth to sin.” James 1:1315 RSV
     “Temptations will pour in upon us, for by them we are to be tried during our probation upon earth. This is the proving of God, a revelation of our own hearts. There is no sin in having temptations; but sin comes in when temptation is yielded to.” 4T 358
     What does it mean, temptation is “a revelation of our own hearts?” When we are faced by temptation it shows us what we could or would do if we did not quickly submit to God. It shows us the potential of the sinful fleshly nature which we have to deal with as long as we are in this world. That is why Jesus also took the sinful fleshly nature, so He could feel our temptations.
     “For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities; but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin.” Heb. 4:15
     “Temptation is not sin. Jesus was holy and pure; yet He was tempted in all points as we are, but with a strength and power that man will never be called upon to endure. In His successful resistance He has left us a bright example, that we should follow His steps. If we are self-confident or self-righteous we shall be left to fall under the power of temptation; but if we look to Jesus and trust in Him we call to our aid a power that has conquered the foe on the field of battle, and with every temptation He will make a way of escape. When Satan comes in like a flood, we must meet his temptations with the sword of the Spirit, and Jesus will be our helper and will lift up for us a standard against him.” 5T 426
     “The Elder Brother of our race is by the eternal throne. He looks upon every soul who is turning his face toward Him as the Saviour. He knows by experience what are the weaknesses of humanity, what are our wants, and where lies the strength of our temptations; for He was ‘in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin.’ Heb. 4:15. He is watching over you, trembling child of God. Are you tempted? He will deliver. Are you weak? He will strengthen. Are you ignorant? He will enlighten. Are you wounded? He will heal.” MH 71
     “Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in time of need.” Heb. 4:15, 16
     ‘“The prince of this world cometh,’ said Jesus, ‘and hath nothing in Me.’ John 14:30. There was in Him nothing that responded to Satan’s sophistry. He did not consent to sin. Not even by a thought did He yield to temptation. So it may be with us.” DA 123
     “There are thoughts and feelings suggested and aroused by Satan that annoy even the best of men; but if they are not cherished, if they are repulsed as hateful, the soul is not contaminated with guilt, and no other is defiled by their influence.” RH 327-1888 
     “Satan finds in human hearts some point where he can gain a foothold; some sinful desire is cherished, by means of which his temptations assert their power.” GC 623
     “Without hesitation or argument, we must close and guard the avenues of the soul against evil.” 3T 324
     “An impure thought tolerated, an unholy desire cherished, and the soul is contaminated, its integrity compromised. . . .
     “If we would not commit sin, we must shun its very beginnings. Every emotion and desire must be held in subjection to reason and conscience. Every unholy thought must be instantly repelled.” 5T 177
     “Give no opportunity to the devil.” Eph. 4:27 RSV
     “Do not for a moment acknowledge Satan’s temptations as being in harmony with your own mind. Turn from them as you would from Satan himself.” OHC 85 
     Do not try to concentrate on your wrong thoughts to bring them into subjection, but rather turn your mind into a heavenly channel and con-centrate on God’s thoughts.
     “For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strong holds; casting down imaginations, and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ.” 2 Cor. 10:4, 5     
     “Your thoughts must be brought into subjection to the will of God and your feelings under the control of reason and religion. Your imagination was not given you to be allowed to run riot and have its own way without any effort at restraint or discipline. If the thoughts are wrong the feelings will be wrong, and the thoughts and the feelings combined make up the moral character. When you decide that as Christians you are not required to restrain your thoughts and feelings you are brought under the influence of evil angels and invite their presence and their control.” 5T 310
     “We cannot allow ourselves to act from impulse. We cannot be off guard for a moment. Beset with temptations without number, we must resist firmly or be conquered.” MH 452
     “Satan takes the control of every mind that is not decidedly under the control of the Spirit of God.” TM 79
     “Those who would not fall a prey to Satan’s devices must guard well the avenues of the soul; they must avoid reading, seeing, or hearing that which will suggest impure thoughts.” MYP 285
     “I will set no wicked thing before my eyes.” Ps. 101:3
     “He who finds pleasure in dwelling upon scenes of impurity, who indulges the evil thought, the lustful look, may behold in the open sin, with its burden of shame and heart-breaking grief, the true nature of the evil which he has hidden in the chambers of the soul.” MB 60     
     “For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he.” Prov. 23:7
     “When the first suggestion of wrong is heard, dart a prayer to heaven, and then firmly resist the temptation.” 3BC 1155
     “But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering.” James 1:6
     “The beginning of yielding to temptation is in the sin of permitting the mind to waver, to be inconsistent in your trust in God. The wicked one is ever watching for a chance to misrepresent God, and to attract the mind to that which is forbidden. If he can, he will fasten the mind upon things of the world. He will endeavor to excite the emotions, to arouse the passions, to fasten the affections on that which is not for your good; but it is for you to hold every emotion and passion under control, in calm sub-jection to reason and conscience. Then Satan loses his power to control the mind.” OHC 87
     “Therefore gird up your minds, be sober, set your hope fully upon the grace that is coming to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance, but as he who called you is holy, be holy yourselves in all your conduct; since it is written, ‘You shall be holy, for I am holy.” 1 Peter 1:1316
     “The tempter’s agency is not to be accounted an excuse for one wrong act. Satan is jubilant when he hears the professed followers of Christ making excuses for their deformity of character. It is these excuses that lead to sin. There is no excuse for sinning. A holy temper, a Christlike life, is accessible to every repenting, believing child of God.” DA 311
     “Be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might.” Eph. 6:10
     “Lean upon Him; and through His power you may quench all the fiery darts of the adversary and come off more than conqueror.” 4T 213
     “When assailed by temptation, look not to circumstances or to the weakness of self, but to the power of the word. All its strength is yours. ‘Thy word,’ says the psalmist, ‘have I hid in mine heart, that I might not sin against Thee.’ ‘By the word of Thy lips I have kept me from the paths of the destroyer.’ Ps. 119:11; 17:4.” DA 123
     “The father of lies quakes and trembles when the truth of God, in burning power, is thrown in his face.” 5T 426

