Chapter 20: He Is Able to Keep You from Falling 
     “Now unto him that is able to keep you from falling, and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy.” Jude 24
     “For I the Lord thy God will hold thy right hand, saying unto thee, Fear not; I will help thee.” Isa. 41:13
     “To go forward without stumbling, we must have the assurance that a hand all-powerful will hold us up, and an infinite pity be exercised toward us if we fall.” SD 154
     “For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities; but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in time of need.” Heb. 4:15, 16
     “My grace is sufficient for thee: for my strength is made perfect in weakness.” 2 Cor. 12:9
     “As thy days, so shall thy strength be.” Deut. 33:25
     “We are to live only one day at a time. We do not have to do the work of a lifetime in a few hours. We need not look into the future with anxiety; for God has made it possible for us to be overcomers every day.” FL 249
     “Are you overcoming? or are you being overcome by your own lusts and appetites and passions.” 5T 511
     “The only hope for us if we would overcome is to unite our will to God’s will and work in cooperation with Him, hour by hour and day by day.”     MB 143
     “The Christian life is one of daily surrender, submission and con-tinual overcoming.” 4BC 1154
     Even if we had many wrong habits before we surrendered to Jesus, as we take one step at a time, one moment at a time, victory over those habits can be ours continually if we stay submitted to Him, depending on His power.
     “I can do all things in him who strengthens me.” Phil. 4:13
     “It is His grace that gives man power to obey the laws of God. It is this that enables him to break the bondage of evil habit. This is the only power that can make him and keep him steadfast in the right path.” MH 115
     “Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus.”   2 Tim. 2:1
     “Christ always separates the contrite soul from sin. He came to destroy the works of the devil, and He has made provision that the Holy Spirit shall be imparted to every repentant soul, to keep him from sinning.” DA 311
     “He who has not sufficient faith in Christ to believe that He can keep him from sinning, has not the faith that will give him an entrance into the kingdom of God.” RH 3101904
    “We can overcome. Yes; fully, entirely. Jesus died to make a way of escape for us, that we might overcome every evil temper, every sin, every temptation, and sit down at last with Him.” 1T 144

